docs/community/resources.md, before:

# Resources

This includes Blogs, podcasts, courses, e-books, architecture samples and videos around Polly. When we discover an interesting write-up on Polly, we'll add it to this list. If you have a blog post you'd like to share, please submit a PR!

## Blog posts

- [Adding a circuit breaker to your ASP.NET 6 application with Polly](https://lachlanbarclay.net/2023/01/adding-a-circuit-breaker-to-asp-net-6-application) - by [Lachlan Barclay](https://lachlanbarclay.net/)
- [Try .NET Samples of Polly, the .NET Resilience Framework](https://github.com/bryanjhogan/trydotnet-polly) - by [Bryan Hogan](https://nodogmablog.bryanhogan.net/)
- [Create exceptional interactive documentation with Try .NET - The Polly NuGet library did!](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/CreateExceptionalInteractiveDocumentationWithTryNETThePollyNuGetLibraryDid.aspx) - by [Scott Hanselman](https://www.hanselman.com/about/) (writing about the work of Bryan Hogan)
- [Adding resilience and Transient Fault handling to your .NET Core `HttpClient` with Polly](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/AddingResilienceAndTransientFaultHandlingToYourNETCoreHttpClientWithPolly.aspx) - by [Scott Hanselman](https://www.hanselman.com/about/)
- [Reliable Event Processing in Azure Functions](https://hackernoon.com/reliable-event-processing-in-azure-functions-37054dc2d0fc) - by [Jeff Hollan](https://hackernoon.com/@jeffhollan)
- [Optimally configuring ASP.NET Core `HttpClientFactory`](https://rehansaeed.com/optimally-configuring-asp-net-core-httpclientfactory/) including with Polly policies - by [Muhammad Rehan Saeed](https://twitter.com/RehanSaeedUK/)
- [Integrating `HttpClientFactory` with Polly for transient fault handling](https://www.stevejgordon.co.uk/httpclientfactory-using-polly-for-transient-fault-handling) - by [Steve Gordon](https://www.stevejgordon.co.uk/)
- [Resilient network connectivity in Xamarin Forms](https://xamarinhelp.com/resilient-network-connectivity-xamarin-forms/) - by [Adam Pedley](http://xamarinhelp.com/contact/)
- [Policy recommendations for Azure Cognitive Services](https://www.thepollyproject.org/2018/03/06/policy-recommendations-for-azure-cognitive-services/) - by [Joel Hulen](https://www.thepollyproject.org/author/joel/)
- [Using Polly with F# async workflows](https://blog.ploeh.dk/2017/05/30/using-polly-with-f-async-workflows/) - by [Mark Seemann](https://blog.ploeh.dk/about/)
- [Building resilient applications with Polly](https://elvanydev.com/resilience-with-polly/) (with focus on Azure SQL transient errors) - by [Geovanny Alzate Sandoval](https://github.com/vany0114)
- [Azure SQL transient errors](https://hackernoon.com/azure-sql-transient-errors-7625ad6e0a06) - by [Mattias Karlsson](https://hackernoon.com/@devlead)
- [Polly series on No Dogma blog](https://nodogmablog.bryanhogan.net/tag/polly/) - by [Bryan Hogan](https://twitter.com/bryanjhogan)
- [Polly 5.0 - a wider resilience framework!](https://www.thepollyproject.org/2016/10/25/polly-5-0-a-wider-resilience-framework/) - by [Dylan Reisenberger](https://www.thepollyproject.org/author/dylan/)
- [Implementing the retry pattern in c sharp using Polly](https://alastaircrabtree.com/implementing-the-retry-pattern-using-polly/) - by [Alastair Crabtree](https://alastaircrabtree.com/about/)
- [NuGet Package of the Week: Polly wanna fluently express transient exception handling policies in .NET?](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/NuGetPackageOfTheWeekPollyWannaFluentlyExpressTransientExceptionHandlingPoliciesInNET.aspx) - by [Scott Hanselman](https://www.hanselman.com/about/)
- [Exception handling policies with Polly](https://putridparrot.com/blog/exception-handling-policies-with-polly/) - by [Mark Timmings](https://putridparrot.com/blog/about/)
- [When you use the Polly circuit-breaker, make sure you share your Policy instances!](https://andrewlock.net/when-you-use-the-polly-circuit-breaker-make-sure-you-share-your-policy-instances-2/) - by [Andrew Lock](https://andrewlock.net/about/)
- [Polly is Repetitive, and I love it!](https://www.appvnext.com/blog/2015/11/19/polly-is-repetitive-and-i-love-it) - by [Joel Hulen](https://www.thepollyproject.org/author/joel/)
- [Using the Context to Obtain the Retry Count for Diagnostics](https://www.stevejgordon.co.uk/polly-using-context-to-obtain-retry-count-diagnostics) - by [Steve Gordon](https://twitter.com/stevejgordon)
- [Passing an `ILogger` to Polly Policies](https://www.stevejgordon.co.uk/passing-an-ilogger-to-polly-policies) - by [Steve Gordon](https://twitter.com/stevejgordon)
- [Using Polly and Flurl to improve your website](https://jeremylindsayni.wordpress.com/2019/01/01/using-polly-and-flurl-to-improve-your-website/) - by Jeremy Lindsay.
- [Exploring the Polly.Contrib.WaitAndRetry helpers](https://hyr.mn/Polly-wait-and-retry/) - by [Ben Hyrman](https://twitter.com/hyrmn), who also wrote most of the Polly.Contrib.WaitAndRetry documentation.
- [Retries - An interactive study of common retry methods](https://encore.dev/blog/retries) - by [Sam Rose](https://twitter.com/samwhoo)
- [Building resilient cloud services with .NET 8](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/building-resilient-cloud-services-with-dotnet-8/) by [Martin Tomka](https://github.com/martintmk)
- [Resilience and chaos engineering](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/resilience-and-chaos-engineering/) by [Martin Tomka](https://github.com/martintmk)
- [Securing the supply chain at scale - Starting with 71 important open source projects](https://github.blog/open-source/maintainers/securing-the-supply-chain-at-scale-starting-with-71-important-open-source-projects/) by [Gregg Cochran](https://github.com/dubsopenhub)

## Podcasts

- June 2018: [.NET Rocks features Polly](https://www.dotnetrocks.com/?show=1556) as [Carl Franklin](https://twitter.com/carlfranklin) and [Richard Campbell](https://twitter.com/richcampbell) chat with [Dylan Reisenberger](https://twitter.com/softwarereisen) about policy patterns, and the new ASP NET Core 2.1 integration with `IHttpClientFactory`.
- April 2017: [Dylan Reisenberger](https://twitter.com/softwarereisen) sits down virtually with [Bryan Hogan](https://twitter.com/bryanjhogan) of [No Dogma Blog](https://nodogmablog.bryanhogan.net/) for an [Introduction to Polly podcast](https://nodogmapodcast.bryanhogan.net/71-dylan-reisenberger-the-polly-project/). Why do I need Polly? History of the Polly project. What do we mean by resilience and transient faults? How retry and circuit-breaker help. Exponential back-off. Stability patterns. Bulkhead isolation. Future directions (as at April 2017).
- December 2023: [.NET Rocks - _Polly V8 with Joel Hulen and Martin Costello_](https://www.dotnetrocks.com/details/1875) - as [Carl Franklin](https://twitter.com/carlfranklin) and [Richard Campbell](https://twitter.com/richcampbell) chat with [Joel Hulen](https://github.com/joelhulen) and [Martin Costello](https://github.com/martincostello) about the release of [Polly V8](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/releases/tag/8.0.0).

## PluralSight course

- [Bryan Hogan](https://twitter.com/bryanjhogan) of the [No Dogma Blog](https://nodogmablog.bryanhogan.net/) has authored a [PluralSight course on Polly](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/polly-fault-tolerant-web-service-requests). The course takes you through all the major features of Polly, with an additional module added in the fall of 2018 on `HttpClientFactory`. The course examples are based around using Polly for fault tolerance when calling remote web services, but the principles and techniques are applicable to any context in which Polly may be used.

## Sample micro-services architecture and e-book

### Sample micro-services architecture

- [Cesar de la Torre](https://github.com/CESARDELATORRE) produced the Microsoft [eShopOnContainers project](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers), a sample project demonstrating a .NET Micro-services architecture. The project uses Polly retry and circuit-breaker policies for resilience in calls to micro-services, and in establishing connections to transports such as RabbitMQ.

### e-book

- Accompanying the project is a [.NET Micro-services Architecture e-book](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/thank-you/microservices-architecture-ebook) with an extensive section (section 8) on using Polly for resilience, to which [Dylan Reisenberger](https://twitter.com/softwarereisen) contributed. The e-book and code is now (June 2018) updated for using the latest ASP NET Core 2.1 features, [Polly with `IHttpClientFactory`](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/wiki/Polly-and-HttpClientFactory).

## Videos

- [Robust Applications with Polly, the .NET Resilience Framework](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/polly), Bryan Hogan introduces Polly and explains how to use it to build a fault tolerant application.
- From MVP [Houssem Dellai](https://github.com/HoussemDellai), a [YouTube video on How to use Polly with Xamarin Apps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vsN0RkFN_E), covering wait-and-retry and discussing circuit-breaker policy with a demonstration in Xamarin Forms. Here is the [source code](https://github.com/HoussemDellai/ResilientHttpClient) of the application demonstrated in the video. Draws on the [`ResilientHttpClient`](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers/blob/dev/src/BuildingBlocks/Resilience/Resilience.Http/ResilientHttpClient.cs) from Microsoft's [eShopOnContainers project](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers).
- In the video, [.NET Rocks Live with Jon Skeet and Bill Wagner](https://youtu.be/LCj7h7ZoHA8?t=1617), Bill Wagner discusses Polly.
- Scott Allen discusses Polly during his [Building for Resiliency and Scale in the Cloud](https://youtu.be/SFLu6jZWXGs?t=1440) presentation at NDC.
- [ASP.NET Community Stand-up April 24, 2018](https://youtu.be/k0Xy-5zE9to?t=12m22s): Damian Edwards, Jon Galloway and Scott Hanselman discuss Scott Hanselman's blog on [Polly with `IHttpClientFactory`](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/AddingResilienceAndTransientFaultHandlingToYourNETCoreHttpClientWithPolly.aspx) and the [Polly team documentation on `IHttpClientFactory`](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/wiki/Polly-and-HttpClientFactory). Interesting background discussion also on feature richness and the importance of good documentation.
- [Ensuring Resilience with Polly - Visual Studio Toolbox Live](https://www.youtube.com/live/_cPouhmUO-A?si=07KlpPQFRnPWfym7&t=154) - [Martin Costello](https://github.com/martincostello) shows how you can use Polly, a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library.

Commit message:

Added rate limit headers documentation

docs/community/resources.md, after:

# Resources

This includes Blogs, podcasts, courses, e-books, architecture samples and videos around Polly. When we discover an interesting write-up on Polly, we'll add it to this list. If you have a blog post you'd like to share, please submit a PR!

## Blog posts

- [Adding a circuit breaker to your ASP.NET 6 application with Polly](https://lachlanbarclay.net/2023/01/adding-a-circuit-breaker-to-asp-net-6-application) - by [Lachlan Barclay](https://lachlanbarclay.net/)
- [Try .NET Samples of Polly, the .NET Resilience Framework](https://github.com/bryanjhogan/trydotnet-polly) - by [Bryan Hogan](https://nodogmablog.bryanhogan.net/)
- [Create exceptional interactive documentation with Try .NET - The Polly NuGet library did!](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/CreateExceptionalInteractiveDocumentationWithTryNETThePollyNuGetLibraryDid.aspx) - by [Scott Hanselman](https://www.hanselman.com/about/) (writing about the work of Bryan Hogan)
- [Adding resilience and Transient Fault handling to your .NET Core `HttpClient` with Polly](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/AddingResilienceAndTransientFaultHandlingToYourNETCoreHttpClientWithPolly.aspx) - by [Scott Hanselman](https://www.hanselman.com/about/)
- [Reliable Event Processing in Azure Functions](https://hackernoon.com/reliable-event-processing-in-azure-functions-37054dc2d0fc) - by [Jeff Hollan](https://hackernoon.com/@jeffhollan)
- [Optimally configuring ASP.NET Core `HttpClientFactory`](https://rehansaeed.com/optimally-configuring-asp-net-core-httpclientfactory/) including with Polly policies - by [Muhammad Rehan Saeed](https://twitter.com/RehanSaeedUK/)
- [Integrating `HttpClientFactory` with Polly for transient fault handling](https://www.stevejgordon.co.uk/httpclientfactory-using-polly-for-transient-fault-handling) - by [Steve Gordon](https://www.stevejgordon.co.uk/)
- [Resilient network connectivity in Xamarin Forms](https://xamarinhelp.com/resilient-network-connectivity-xamarin-forms/) - by [Adam Pedley](http://xamarinhelp.com/contact/)
- [Policy recommendations for Azure Cognitive Services](https://www.thepollyproject.org/2018/03/06/policy-recommendations-for-azure-cognitive-services/) - by [Joel Hulen](https://www.thepollyproject.org/author/joel/)
- [Using Polly with F# async workflows](https://blog.ploeh.dk/2017/05/30/using-polly-with-f-async-workflows/) - by [Mark Seemann](https://blog.ploeh.dk/about/)
- [Building resilient applications with Polly](https://elvanydev.com/resilience-with-polly/) (with focus on Azure SQL transient errors) - by [Geovanny Alzate Sandoval](https://github.com/vany0114)
- [Azure SQL transient errors](https://hackernoon.com/azure-sql-transient-errors-7625ad6e0a06) - by [Mattias Karlsson](https://hackernoon.com/@devlead)
- [Polly series on No Dogma blog](https://nodogmablog.bryanhogan.net/tag/polly/) - by [Bryan Hogan](https://twitter.com/bryanjhogan)
- [Polly 5.0 - a wider resilience framework!](https://www.thepollyproject.org/2016/10/25/polly-5-0-a-wider-resilience-framework/) - by [Dylan Reisenberger](https://www.thepollyproject.org/author/dylan/)
- [Implementing the retry pattern in c sharp using Polly](https://alastaircrabtree.com/implementing-the-retry-pattern-using-polly/) - by [Alastair Crabtree](https://alastaircrabtree.com/about/)
- [NuGet Package of the Week: Polly wanna fluently express transient exception handling policies in .NET?](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/NuGetPackageOfTheWeekPollyWannaFluentlyExpressTransientExceptionHandlingPoliciesInNET.aspx) - by [Scott Hanselman](https://www.hanselman.com/about/)
- [Exception handling policies with Polly](https://putridparrot.com/blog/exception-handling-policies-with-polly/) - by [Mark Timmings](https://putridparrot.com/blog/about/)
- [When you use the Polly circuit-breaker, make sure you share your Policy instances!](https://andrewlock.net/when-you-use-the-polly-circuit-breaker-make-sure-you-share-your-policy-instances-2/) - by [Andrew Lock](https://andrewlock.net/about/)
- [Polly is Repetitive, and I love it!](https://www.appvnext.com/blog/2015/11/19/polly-is-repetitive-and-i-love-it) - by [Joel Hulen](https://www.thepollyproject.org/author/joel/)
- [Using the Context to Obtain the Retry Count for Diagnostics](https://www.stevejgordon.co.uk/polly-using-context-to-obtain-retry-count-diagnostics) - by [Steve Gordon](https://twitter.com/stevejgordon)
- [Passing an `ILogger` to Polly Policies](https://www.stevejgordon.co.uk/passing-an-ilogger-to-polly-policies) - by [Steve Gordon](https://twitter.com/stevejgordon)
- [Using Polly and Flurl to improve your website](https://jeremylindsayni.wordpress.com/2019/01/01/using-polly-and-flurl-to-improve-your-website/) - by Jeremy Lindsay.
- [Exploring the Polly.Contrib.WaitAndRetry helpers](https://hyr.mn/Polly-wait-and-retry/) - by [Ben Hyrman](https://twitter.com/hyrmn), who also wrote most of the Polly.Contrib.WaitAndRetry documentation.
- [Retries - An interactive study of common retry methods](https://encore.dev/blog/retries) - by [Sam Rose](https://twitter.com/samwhoo)
- [Building resilient cloud services with .NET 8](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/building-resilient-cloud-services-with-dotnet-8/) by [Martin Tomka](https://github.com/martintmk)
- [Resilience and chaos engineering](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/resilience-and-chaos-engineering/) by [Martin Tomka](https://github.com/martintmk)
- [Securing the supply chain at scale - Starting with 71 important open source projects](https://github.blog/open-source/maintainers/securing-the-supply-chain-at-scale-starting-with-71-important-open-source-projects/) by [Gregg Cochran](https://github.com/dubsopenhub)
- [Preparing for the IETF RateLimit header standard in .NET](https://dev.to/alexisfranorge/preparing-for-the-ietf-ratelimit-header-standard-in-net-3ebk) - by [Alexis Pujo](https://github.com/Alexis-)

## Podcasts

- June 2018: [.NET Rocks features Polly](https://www.dotnetrocks.com/?show=1556) as [Carl Franklin](https://twitter.com/carlfranklin) and [Richard Campbell](https://twitter.com/richcampbell) chat with [Dylan Reisenberger](https://twitter.com/softwarereisen) about policy patterns, and the new ASP NET Core 2.1 integration with `IHttpClientFactory`.
- April 2017: [Dylan Reisenberger](https://twitter.com/softwarereisen) sits down virtually with [Bryan Hogan](https://twitter.com/bryanjhogan) of [No Dogma Blog](https://nodogmablog.bryanhogan.net/) for an [Introduction to Polly podcast](https://nodogmapodcast.bryanhogan.net/71-dylan-reisenberger-the-polly-project/). Why do I need Polly? History of the Polly project. What do we mean by resilience and transient faults? How retry and circuit-breaker help. Exponential back-off. Stability patterns. Bulkhead isolation. Future directions (as at April 2017).
- December 2023: [.NET Rocks - _Polly V8 with Joel Hulen and Martin Costello_](https://www.dotnetrocks.com/details/1875) - as [Carl Franklin](https://twitter.com/carlfranklin) and [Richard Campbell](https://twitter.com/richcampbell) chat with [Joel Hulen](https://github.com/joelhulen) and [Martin Costello](https://github.com/martincostello) about the release of [Polly V8](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/releases/tag/8.0.0).

## PluralSight course

- [Bryan Hogan](https://twitter.com/bryanjhogan) of the [No Dogma Blog](https://nodogmablog.bryanhogan.net/) has authored a [PluralSight course on Polly](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/polly-fault-tolerant-web-service-requests). The course takes you through all the major features of Polly, with an additional module added in the fall of 2018 on `HttpClientFactory`. The course examples are based around using Polly for fault tolerance when calling remote web services, but the principles and techniques are applicable to any context in which Polly may be used.

## Sample micro-services architecture and e-book

### Sample micro-services architecture

- [Cesar de la Torre](https://github.com/CESARDELATORRE) produced the Microsoft [eShopOnContainers project](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers), a sample project demonstrating a .NET Micro-services architecture. The project uses Polly retry and circuit-breaker policies for resilience in calls to micro-services, and in establishing connections to transports such as RabbitMQ.

### e-book

- Accompanying the project is a [.NET Micro-services Architecture e-book](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/thank-you/microservices-architecture-ebook) with an extensive section (section 8) on using Polly for resilience, to which [Dylan Reisenberger](https://twitter.com/softwarereisen) contributed. The e-book and code is now (June 2018) updated for using the latest ASP NET Core 2.1 features, [Polly with `IHttpClientFactory`](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/wiki/Polly-and-HttpClientFactory).

## Videos

- [Robust Applications with Polly, the .NET Resilience Framework](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/polly), Bryan Hogan introduces Polly and explains how to use it to build a fault tolerant application.
- From MVP [Houssem Dellai](https://github.com/HoussemDellai), a [YouTube video on How to use Polly with Xamarin Apps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vsN0RkFN_E), covering wait-and-retry and discussing circuit-breaker policy with a demonstration in Xamarin Forms. Here is the [source code](https://github.com/HoussemDellai/ResilientHttpClient) of the application demonstrated in the video. Draws on the [`ResilientHttpClient`](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers/blob/dev/src/BuildingBlocks/Resilience/Resilience.Http/ResilientHttpClient.cs) from Microsoft's [eShopOnContainers project](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers).
- In the video, [.NET Rocks Live with Jon Skeet and Bill Wagner](https://youtu.be/LCj7h7ZoHA8?t=1617), Bill Wagner discusses Polly.
- Scott Allen discusses Polly during his [Building for Resiliency and Scale in the Cloud](https://youtu.be/SFLu6jZWXGs?t=1440) presentation at NDC.
- [ASP.NET Community Stand-up April 24, 2018](https://youtu.be/k0Xy-5zE9to?t=12m22s): Damian Edwards, Jon Galloway and Scott Hanselman discuss Scott Hanselman's blog on [Polly with `IHttpClientFactory`](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/AddingResilienceAndTransientFaultHandlingToYourNETCoreHttpClientWithPolly.aspx) and the [Polly team documentation on `IHttpClientFactory`](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/wiki/Polly-and-HttpClientFactory). Interesting background discussion also on feature richness and the importance of good documentation.
- [Ensuring Resilience with Polly - Visual Studio Toolbox Live](https://www.youtube.com/live/_cPouhmUO-A?si=07KlpPQFRnPWfym7&t=154) - [Martin Costello](https://github.com/martincostello) shows how you can use Polly, a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library.
