docs/strategies/rate-limiter.md, before:

# Rate limiter resilience strategy

## About

- **Option(s)**:
  - [`RateLimiterStrategyOptions`](xref:Polly.RateLimiting.RateLimiterStrategyOptions)
- **Extension(s)**:
  - `AddRateLimiter`,
  - `AddConcurrencyLimiter`
- **Exception(s)**:
  - `RateLimiterRejectedException`: Thrown when a rate limiter rejects an execution.

> [!NOTE]
> The rate limiter strategy resides inside the [Polly.RateLimiting](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Polly.RateLimiting) package, not in ([Polly.Core](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Polly.Core)) like other strategies.

---

The rate limiter **proactive** resilience strategy controls the number of operations that can pass through it. This strategy is a thin layer over the API provided by the [`System.Threading.RateLimiting`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Threading.RateLimiting) package. This strategy can be used in two flavors: to control inbound load via a rate limiter and to control outbound load via a concurrency limiter.

Further reading:

- [Announcing rate limiting for .NET](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/announcing-rate-limiting-for-dotnet/)
- [Rate limiting API documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.threading.ratelimiting)

## Usage

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter -->
```cs
// Add rate limiter with default options.
// See https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/rate-limiter#defaults for defaults.
new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new RateLimiterStrategyOptions());

// Create a rate limiter to allow a maximum of 100 concurrent executions and a queue of 50.
new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddConcurrencyLimiter(100, 50);

// Create a rate limiter that allows 100 executions per minute.
new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new SlidingWindowRateLimiter(
        new SlidingWindowRateLimiterOptions
        {
            PermitLimit = 100,
            Window = TimeSpan.FromMinutes(1)
        }));
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

Example execution:

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter-execution -->
```cs
var pipeline = new ResiliencePipelineBuilder().AddConcurrencyLimiter(100, 50).Build();

try
{
    // Execute an asynchronous text search operation.
    var result = await pipeline.ExecuteAsync(
        token => TextSearchAsync(query, token),
        cancellationToken);
}
catch (RateLimiterRejectedException ex)
{
    // Handle RateLimiterRejectedException,
    // that can optionally contain information about when to retry.
    if (ex.RetryAfter is TimeSpan retryAfter)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Retry After: {retryAfter}");
    }
}
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

### Failure handling

It might not be obvious at the first glance what is the difference between these two techniques:

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter-handling-failure -->
```cs
var withOnRejected = new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new RateLimiterStrategyOptions
    {
        DefaultRateLimiterOptions = new ConcurrencyLimiterOptions
        {
            PermitLimit = 10
        },
        OnRejected = args =>
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Rate limit has been exceeded");
            return default;
        }
    }).Build();

var withoutOnRejected = new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new RateLimiterStrategyOptions
    {
        DefaultRateLimiterOptions = new ConcurrencyLimiterOptions
        {
            PermitLimit = 10
        }
    }).Build();

try
{
    await withoutOnRejected.ExecuteAsync(async ct => await TextSearchAsync(query, ct), CancellationToken.None);
}
catch (RateLimiterRejectedException)
{
    Console.WriteLine("Rate limit has been exceeded");
}
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

## Defaults

| Property                    | Default Value                                        | Description                                                                                                 |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `RateLimiter`               | `null`                                               | **Dynamically** creates a `RateLimitLease` for executions.                                                  |
| `DefaultRateLimiterOptions` | `PermitLimit` set to 1000 and `QueueLimit` set to 0. | If `RateLimiter` is not provided then this options object will be used for the default concurrency limiter. |
| `OnRejected`                | `null`                                               | If provided then it will be invoked after the limiter rejected an execution.                                |

### `OnRejected` versus catching `RateLimiterRejectedException`

The `OnRejected` user-provided delegate is called just before the strategy throws the `RateLimiterRejectedException`. This delegate receives a parameter which allows you to access the `Context` object as well as the `Lease`:

- Accessing the `Context` is also possible via a different `Execute{Async}` overload.
- Accessing the rejected `Lease` can be useful in certain scenarios.

So, what is the purpose of the `OnRejected`?

The `OnRejected` delegate can be useful when you define a resilience pipeline which consists of multiple strategies. For example, you have a rate limiter as the inner strategy and a retry as the outer strategy. If the retry is defined to handle `RateLimiterRejectedException`, that means the `Execute{Async}` may or may not throw that exception depending on future attempts. So, if you want to get notification about the fact that the rate limit has been exceeded, you have to provide a delegate to the `OnRejected` property.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The [`RateLimiterRejectedException`](xref:Polly.RateLimiting.RateLimiterRejectedException) has a `RetryAfter` property. If this optional `TimeSpan` is provided then this indicates that your requests are throttled and you should retry them no sooner than the value given.
> Please note that this information is not available inside the `OnRejected` callback.

## Diagrams

### Rate Limiter

Let's suppose we have a rate limiter strategy with `PermitLimit` : `1` and `Window` : `10 seconds`.

### Rate Limiter: happy path sequence diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor C as Caller
    participant P as Pipeline
    participant RL as RateLimiter
    participant D as DecoratedUserCallback

    C->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    P->>RL: Calls ExecuteCore
    Note over RL,D: Window start
    RL->>+D: Invokes
    D->>-RL: Returns result
    RL->>P: Returns result
    P->>C: Returns result
    Note over C: Several seconds later...
    Note over RL,D: Window end
    C->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    P->>RL: Calls ExecuteCore
    Note over RL,D: Window start
    RL->>+D: Invokes
    D->>-RL: Returns result
    RL->>P: Returns result
    P->>C: Returns result
    Note over RL,D: Window end
```

#### Rate limiter: unhappy path sequence diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor C as Caller
    participant P as Pipeline
    participant RL as RateLimiter
    participant D as DecoratedUserCallback

    C->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    P->>RL: Calls ExecuteCore
    Note over RL,D: Window start
    RL->>+D: Invokes
    D->>-RL: Returns result
    RL->>P: Returns result
    P->>C: Returns result
    Note over C: Few seconds later...
    C->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    P->>RL: Calls ExecuteCore
    RL-->>RL: Rejects request
    RL->>P: Throws <br/>RateLimiterRejectedException
    P->>C: Propagates exception
    Note over RL,D: Window end
```

### Concurrency Limiter

Let's suppose we have a concurrency limiter strategy with `PermitLimit` : `1` and `QueueLimit` : `1`.

#### Concurrency limiter: happy path sequence diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor C1 as Caller1
    actor C2 as Caller2
    participant P as Pipeline
    participant CL as ConcurrencyLimiter
    participant D as DecoratedUserCallback

    par
    C1->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    and
    C2->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    end

    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL->>+D: Invokes (C1)
    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL-->>CL: Queues request

    D->>-CL: Returns result (C1)
    CL->>P: Returns result (C1)
    CL->>+D: Invokes (C2)
    P->>C1: Returns result
    D->>-CL: Returns result (C2)
    CL->>P: Returns result (C2)
    P->>C2: Returns result
```

#### Concurrency Limiter: unhappy path sequence diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor C1 as Caller1
    actor C2 as Caller2
    actor C3 as Caller3
    participant P as Pipeline
    participant CL as ConcurrencyLimiter
    participant D as DecoratedUserCallback

    par
    C1->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    and
    C2->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    and
    C3->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    end

    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL->>+D: Invokes (C1)
    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL-->>CL: Queues request (C2)
    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL-->>CL: Rejects request (C3)
    CL->>P: Throws <br/>RateLimiterRejectedException
    P->>C3: Propagates exception

    D->>-CL: Returns result (C1)
    CL->>P: Returns result (C1)
    CL->>+D: Invokes (C2)
    P->>C1: Returns result
    D->>-CL: Returns result (C2)
    CL->>P: Returns result (C2)
    P->>C2: Returns result
```

## Disposal of rate limiters

The `RateLimiter` is a disposable resource. When you explicitly create a `RateLimiter` instance, it's good practice to dispose of it once it's no longer needed. This is usually not an issue when manually creating resilience pipelines using the `ResiliencePipelineBuilder`. However, when dynamic reloads are enabled, failing to dispose of discarded rate limiters can lead to excessive resource consumption. Fortunately, Polly provides a way to dispose of discarded rate limiters, as demonstrated in the example below:

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter-disposal -->
```cs
services
    .AddResiliencePipeline("my-pipeline", (builder, context) =>
    {
        var options = context.GetOptions<ConcurrencyLimiterOptions>("my-concurrency-options");

        // This call enables dynamic reloading of the pipeline
        // when the named ConcurrencyLimiterOptions change.
        context.EnableReloads<ConcurrencyLimiterOptions>("my-concurrency-options");

        var limiter = new ConcurrencyLimiter(options);

        builder.AddRateLimiter(limiter);

        // Dispose of the limiter when the pipeline is disposed.
        context.OnPipelineDisposed(() => limiter.Dispose());
    });
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

The above example uses the `AddResiliencePipeline(...)` extension method to configure the pipeline. However, a similar approach can be taken when directly using the `ResiliencePipelineRegistry<T>`.

## Partitioned rate limiter

For advanced use-cases, the partitioned rate limiter is also available. The following example illustrates how to retrieve a partition key from `ResilienceContext` using the `GetPartitionKey` method:

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter-partitioned -->
```cs
var partitionedLimiter = PartitionedRateLimiter.Create<ResilienceContext, string>(context =>
{
    // Extract the partition key.
    string partitionKey = GetPartitionKey(context);

    return RateLimitPartition.GetConcurrencyLimiter(
        partitionKey,
        key => new ConcurrencyLimiterOptions
        {
            PermitLimit = 100
        });
});

new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new RateLimiterStrategyOptions
    {
        // Provide a custom rate limiter delegate.
        RateLimiter = args =>
        {
            return partitionedLimiter.AcquireAsync(args.Context, 1, args.Context.CancellationToken);
        }
    });
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

Commit message:

Add telemetry to rate limiter

docs/strategies/rate-limiter.md, after:

# Rate limiter resilience strategy

## About

- **Option(s)**:
  - [`RateLimiterStrategyOptions`](xref:Polly.RateLimiting.RateLimiterStrategyOptions)
- **Extension(s)**:
  - `AddRateLimiter`,
  - `AddConcurrencyLimiter`
- **Exception(s)**:
  - `RateLimiterRejectedException`: Thrown when a rate limiter rejects an execution.

> [!NOTE]
> The rate limiter strategy resides inside the [Polly.RateLimiting](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Polly.RateLimiting) package, not in ([Polly.Core](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Polly.Core)) like other strategies.

---

The rate limiter **proactive** resilience strategy controls the number of operations that can pass through it. This strategy is a thin layer over the API provided by the [`System.Threading.RateLimiting`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Threading.RateLimiting) package. This strategy can be used in two flavors: to control inbound load via a rate limiter and to control outbound load via a concurrency limiter.

Further reading:

- [Announcing rate limiting for .NET](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/announcing-rate-limiting-for-dotnet/)
- [Rate limiting API documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.threading.ratelimiting)

## Usage

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter -->
```cs
// Add rate limiter with default options.
// See https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/rate-limiter#defaults for defaults.
new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new RateLimiterStrategyOptions());

// Create a rate limiter to allow a maximum of 100 concurrent executions and a queue of 50.
new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddConcurrencyLimiter(100, 50);

// Create a rate limiter that allows 100 executions per minute.
new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new SlidingWindowRateLimiter(
        new SlidingWindowRateLimiterOptions
        {
            PermitLimit = 100,
            Window = TimeSpan.FromMinutes(1)
        }));
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

Example execution:

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter-execution -->
```cs
var pipeline = new ResiliencePipelineBuilder().AddConcurrencyLimiter(100, 50).Build();

try
{
    // Execute an asynchronous text search operation.
    var result = await pipeline.ExecuteAsync(
        token => TextSearchAsync(query, token),
        cancellationToken);
}
catch (RateLimiterRejectedException ex)
{
    // Handle RateLimiterRejectedException,
    // that can optionally contain information about when to retry.
    if (ex.RetryAfter is TimeSpan retryAfter)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Retry After: {retryAfter}");
    }
}
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

### Failure handling

It might not be obvious at the first glance what is the difference between these two techniques:

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter-handling-failure -->
```cs
var withOnRejected = new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new RateLimiterStrategyOptions
    {
        DefaultRateLimiterOptions = new ConcurrencyLimiterOptions
        {
            PermitLimit = 10
        },
        OnRejected = args =>
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Rate limit has been exceeded");
            return default;
        }
    }).Build();

var withoutOnRejected = new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new RateLimiterStrategyOptions
    {
        DefaultRateLimiterOptions = new ConcurrencyLimiterOptions
        {
            PermitLimit = 10
        }
    }).Build();

try
{
    await withoutOnRejected.ExecuteAsync(async ct => await TextSearchAsync(query, ct), CancellationToken.None);
}
catch (RateLimiterRejectedException)
{
    Console.WriteLine("Rate limit has been exceeded");
}
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

## Defaults

| Property                    | Default Value                                        | Description                                                                                                 |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `RateLimiter`               | `null`                                               | **Dynamically** creates a `RateLimitLease` for executions.                                                  |
| `DefaultRateLimiterOptions` | `PermitLimit` set to 1000 and `QueueLimit` set to 0. | If `RateLimiter` is not provided then this options object will be used for the default concurrency limiter. |
| `OnRejected`                | `null`                                               | If provided then it will be invoked after the limiter rejected an execution.                                |

### `OnRejected` versus catching `RateLimiterRejectedException`

The `OnRejected` user-provided delegate is called just before the strategy throws the `RateLimiterRejectedException`. This delegate receives a parameter which allows you to access the `Context` object as well as the `Lease`:

- Accessing the `Context` is also possible via a different `Execute{Async}` overload.
- Accessing the rejected `Lease` can be useful in certain scenarios.

So, what is the purpose of the `OnRejected`?

The `OnRejected` delegate can be useful when you define a resilience pipeline which consists of multiple strategies. For example, you have a rate limiter as the inner strategy and a retry as the outer strategy. If the retry is defined to handle `RateLimiterRejectedException`, that means the `Execute{Async}` may or may not throw that exception depending on future attempts. So, if you want to get notification about the fact that the rate limit has been exceeded, you have to provide a delegate to the `OnRejected` property.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The [`RateLimiterRejectedException`](xref:Polly.RateLimiting.RateLimiterRejectedException) has a `RetryAfter` property. If this optional `TimeSpan` is provided then this indicates that your requests are throttled and you should retry them no sooner than the value given.
> Please note that this information is not available inside the `OnRejected` callback.

## Telemetry

The rate limiter strategy reports the following telemetry events:

| Event Name              | Event Severity | When?                                                    |
|-------------------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| `OnRateLimiterRejected` | `Error`        | Just before the strategy calls the `OnRejected` delegate |

Here are some sample events:

```none
Resilience event occurred. EventName: 'OnRateLimiterRejected', Source: '(null)/(null)/RateLimiter', Operation Key: '', Result: ''
Resilience event occurred. EventName: 'OnRateLimiterRejected', Source: 'MyApplication/MyTestPipeline/MyRateLimiterStrategy', Operation Key: 'MyRateLimitedOperation', Result: ''
```

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that the `OnRateLimiterRejected` telemetry event will be reported **only if** the rate limiter strategy rejects the provided callback execution.
>
> Also remember that the `Result` will be **always empty** for the `OnRateLimiterRejected` telemetry event.

For further information please check out the [telemetry page](https://www.pollydocs.org/advanced/telemetry).

## Diagrams

### Rate Limiter

Let's suppose we have a rate limiter strategy with `PermitLimit` : `1` and `Window` : `10 seconds`.

### Rate Limiter: happy path sequence diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor C as Caller
    participant P as Pipeline
    participant RL as RateLimiter
    participant D as DecoratedUserCallback

    C->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    P->>RL: Calls ExecuteCore
    Note over RL,D: Window start
    RL->>+D: Invokes
    D->>-RL: Returns result
    RL->>P: Returns result
    P->>C: Returns result
    Note over C: Several seconds later...
    Note over RL,D: Window end
    C->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    P->>RL: Calls ExecuteCore
    Note over RL,D: Window start
    RL->>+D: Invokes
    D->>-RL: Returns result
    RL->>P: Returns result
    P->>C: Returns result
    Note over RL,D: Window end
```

#### Rate limiter: unhappy path sequence diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor C as Caller
    participant P as Pipeline
    participant RL as RateLimiter
    participant D as DecoratedUserCallback

    C->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    P->>RL: Calls ExecuteCore
    Note over RL,D: Window start
    RL->>+D: Invokes
    D->>-RL: Returns result
    RL->>P: Returns result
    P->>C: Returns result
    Note over C: Few seconds later...
    C->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    P->>RL: Calls ExecuteCore
    RL-->>RL: Rejects request
    RL->>P: Throws <br/>RateLimiterRejectedException
    P->>C: Propagates exception
    Note over RL,D: Window end
```

### Concurrency Limiter

Let's suppose we have a concurrency limiter strategy with `PermitLimit` : `1` and `QueueLimit` : `1`.

#### Concurrency limiter: happy path sequence diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor C1 as Caller1
    actor C2 as Caller2
    participant P as Pipeline
    participant CL as ConcurrencyLimiter
    participant D as DecoratedUserCallback

    par
    C1->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    and
    C2->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    end

    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL->>+D: Invokes (C1)
    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL-->>CL: Queues request

    D->>-CL: Returns result (C1)
    CL->>P: Returns result (C1)
    CL->>+D: Invokes (C2)
    P->>C1: Returns result
    D->>-CL: Returns result (C2)
    CL->>P: Returns result (C2)
    P->>C2: Returns result
```

#### Concurrency Limiter: unhappy path sequence diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor C1 as Caller1
    actor C2 as Caller2
    actor C3 as Caller3
    participant P as Pipeline
    participant CL as ConcurrencyLimiter
    participant D as DecoratedUserCallback

    par
    C1->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    and
    C2->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    and
    C3->>P: Calls ExecuteAsync
    end

    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL->>+D: Invokes (C1)
    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL-->>CL: Queues request (C2)
    P->>CL: Calls ExecuteCore
    CL-->>CL: Rejects request (C3)
    CL->>P: Throws <br/>RateLimiterRejectedException
    P->>C3: Propagates exception

    D->>-CL: Returns result (C1)
    CL->>P: Returns result (C1)
    CL->>+D: Invokes (C2)
    P->>C1: Returns result
    D->>-CL: Returns result (C2)
    CL->>P: Returns result (C2)
    P->>C2: Returns result
```

## Disposal of rate limiters

The `RateLimiter` is a disposable resource. When you explicitly create a `RateLimiter` instance, it's good practice to dispose of it once it's no longer needed. This is usually not an issue when manually creating resilience pipelines using the `ResiliencePipelineBuilder`. However, when dynamic reloads are enabled, failing to dispose of discarded rate limiters can lead to excessive resource consumption. Fortunately, Polly provides a way to dispose of discarded rate limiters, as demonstrated in the example below:

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter-disposal -->
```cs
services
    .AddResiliencePipeline("my-pipeline", (builder, context) =>
    {
        var options = context.GetOptions<ConcurrencyLimiterOptions>("my-concurrency-options");

        // This call enables dynamic reloading of the pipeline
        // when the named ConcurrencyLimiterOptions change.
        context.EnableReloads<ConcurrencyLimiterOptions>("my-concurrency-options");

        var limiter = new ConcurrencyLimiter(options);

        builder.AddRateLimiter(limiter);

        // Dispose of the limiter when the pipeline is disposed.
        context.OnPipelineDisposed(() => limiter.Dispose());
    });
```
<!-- endSnippet -->

The above example uses the `AddResiliencePipeline(...)` extension method to configure the pipeline. However, a similar approach can be taken when directly using the `ResiliencePipelineRegistry<T>`.

## Partitioned rate limiter

For advanced use-cases, the partitioned rate limiter is also available. The following example illustrates how to retrieve a partition key from `ResilienceContext` using the `GetPartitionKey` method:

<!-- snippet: rate-limiter-partitioned -->
```cs
var partitionedLimiter = PartitionedRateLimiter.Create<ResilienceContext, string>(context =>
{
    // Extract the partition key.
    string partitionKey = GetPartitionKey(context);

    return RateLimitPartition.GetConcurrencyLimiter(
        partitionKey,
        key => new ConcurrencyLimiterOptions
        {
            PermitLimit = 100
        });
});

new ResiliencePipelineBuilder()
    .AddRateLimiter(new RateLimiterStrategyOptions
    {
        // Provide a custom rate limiter delegate.
        RateLimiter = args =>
        {
            return partitionedLimiter.AcquireAsync(args.Context, 1, args.Context.CancellationToken);
        }
    });
```
<!-- endSnippet -->
